CHARUSAT Policy for CHARUSAT Summer Research Internship (CSRI) (Effective from July 2024) CHAROTAR UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CHANGA 388 421 GUJARAT CHAROTAR UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (CHARUSAT) CHARUSAT Campus, Changa, Anand District, Gujarat – 388421. Policy for CHARUSAT Summer Research Internship (CSRI) (Effective from July 2024) Introduction: This policy envisages attracting brilliant students across CHARUSAT and globe to get them exposed to Research activities of CHARUSAT for a short term. A Professor / Associate professor (Mentor) will be taking student interns either to participate in Department / Institute Research activities or distress of pursuing their own interest through Department / Institute Mentors or both. CSRI 1. Objective: 1.1.The visiting students’ research internship is offered by the CHARUSAT with the aim of promoting interest in scientific research in college and university students. 1.2.The outcome of internship will be good research papers, good research project and availability of prospective research scholars. CSRI 2. Eligibility: 2.1.Any UG/PG student with First Class or pursuing UG/PG with First Class credentials 2.2.Proven research and innovation aptitude through publications, projects, conference presentations, poster presentations, patents, previous research experience, etc. CSRI 3. Application Procedure: 3.1. The notification of the Internship will be advertised on CHARUSAT website and also be sending it to Educational and Research Institutions. The interested student shall be asked to complete an online application, which will be available on the CHARUSAT webpage in the month of March every year. This shall be open to CHARUSAT students also subject to their fulfilling eligibility criteria. 3.2. The concerned Associate Professor / Professor who desire to have fellow interns shall intimate to CHARUSAT Research Section for their requirements by end of February. CSRI 4. Selection Procedure: 4.1.The selection will be done by a committee comprising Principal / HOD (Engg.), a senior faculty member and the Associate Professor / Professor with whom the student intern will be associated. The concerned Professor / Associate .Professor shall conduct the meeting. Page 2 of 4 CHARUSAT CSRI Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) ) 4.2.The selection of student intern shall be based on merit considering academic performance proven research aptitude and recommendation letters. CSRI 5. Other terms: The number of student interns and internship duration shall be as under: Mentor Category Visiting research Intern Duration of Internship Professor 2/per year$ Maximum 3 months # Associate Professor 1/per year$ Maximum 3 months # $ For more numbers university permission shall be obtained. # Three months are to be equated as 90 days and these can be spread over six months also. 5.1.The Mentors will be taking the student interns to work on department / institute research projects. Alternatively, a student who is desirous of pursuing his / her interest under mentorship of a Professor / Associate Professor may also be considered by the Mentors. 5.2.At the end of the internship, the student shall present his/her work in Department (Engg.) / Institute 5.3.A certificate shall be given to the student after successful completion of the internship 5.4.During the course of the project work, if the performance of the student is found to be not satisfactory, his/her internship will be terminated at any time. 5.5.Extension of internship can be requested subject to satisfactory performance of the student. The total tenure, including the extension, should not exceed six months, except for the cases where the student is self-funded or the project is part of a course extending more than six months. Such request for extension must be made at least two weeks prior to the completion of the current tenure. 5.6.The presence of the student in the institute is strictly needed on all working days except in the cases of course related projects where going outside campus is needed. The intern shall keep informed their Mentor regarding their presence in / outside campus. 5.7.Internship is an initiative for encouragement to students to pursue research and innovation. It shall not be considered as an employment 5.8.Any intellectual property generated shall be owned by CHARUSAT. Due recognition will be given to the student intern based on significance of contribution. 5.9.The students should be extended all the knowledge resources of CHARUSAT during their internship duration. CSRI 6. Internship Allowances: The selected students should be provided accommodation and get Rs.300/- per day as internship allowances to meet their food and miscellaneous expenses. Page 3 of 4 CHARUSAT CSRI Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) )