CHARUSAT Policy for Post-Doctoral Research (Effective from July 2024) CHAROTAR UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, CHANGA 388 421 GUJARAT CHAROTAR UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (CHARUSAT) CHARUSAT Campus, Changa, Anand District, Gujarat – 388421. Policy for Post-Doctoral Research (Effective from July 2024) PDF 1. General: 1.1 The Charotar University of Science & Technology (CHARUSAT) has initiated the Post-Doctoral Fellowship (PDF) programme to achieve excellence in its Research endeavors. 1.2 The Post-Doctoral Fellowship Programme has following objectives 1.2.1. A time bound focused research work. 1.2.2. Research work which aligns with CHARUSAT research plan 1.2.3. Research projects assigned by the industry 1.2.4. The research project supported through Government Funding agencies or any other such entities. 1.3 These fellowships are to supplement the resource persons in R&D efforts in institutions / laboratories / departments, etc. where basic infrastructure and resources exist. It is not intended to support establishment of specialized facilities, centers or divisions. 1.4 The fellowship shall be for one year. Sanctioned fellowships shall be monitored and renewed at the end of the year by monitoring committee for one more year extension. No extension shall be given beyond two years. The vacant position shall be advertised again. 1.5 The PDF fellow mentorship is normally provided to recognize Professor/Associate Professor (Mentor) in regular employment in CHARUSAT. Mentor shall be a) Ph.D holder with proven track record of research substantiated through Journal publications, Patents and other such parameter. b) Principal Investigator of any funded research project. c) Ability to monitor and guide the postdoctoral fellows. d) No. of PDF / Mentor assigned is one at a given time. 1.6 External mentors may also be invited to guide the post-doctoral fellow. With prior approval from university, mentor may nominate and collaborate with external senior level known researcher to achieve the specific objectives. CHARUSAT PDF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 2 of 8 1.7 Total expenditure may be managed in two parts. 1.7.1 Stipend to the Post-Doctoral fellow from CHARUSAT or from the funding Agency. 1.7.2 Other expenses (recurring as well as non-recurring) are barred from the funded research project or from CHARUSAT. 1.7.3 Once the total number of fellowship is decided by the research cell, application shall be invited through various modes of advertisement. 1.8 Fellowships are liable to be terminated, if the progress is not found satisfactory. In such cases fellow has to return the drawn stipend to the CHARUSAT. 1.9 It shall be mandatory for the mentor and post-doctoral fellow to suitably acknowledge the support received from CHARUSAT in each of the publications arising from the work done under the fellowship. 1.10 Any intellectual property arising from such fellowship program shall be owned by the CHARUSAT. A due consideration shall be there for Mentor(s) and the post-doctoral fellow. 1.11 These shall come into force from July 2024. PDF 2. Eligibility criteria: Subject to the conditions stipulated in these Regulations, the following persons are eligible to get PDF Fellowship: 2.1 The minimum qualifications are: Doctorate (PhD/MD) or equivalent degree. 2.2 The fellow shall apply within two years, after the award of Ph.D Degree. PDF 3. Application Procedure: 3.1 Upon advertisement by CHARUSAT, Candidate will submit an application on plain paper to university along with updated resume, list of publications, full length articles of two important papers, copies of certificate (B.Sc, M.Sc, PhD/ M.D/ B.Tech, M.Tech/ B.C.A, MCA/ B.B.A, MBA/ B.Pharm, M.Pharm), two letters of recommendation (academic) etc. 3.2 Candidate has to submit one or two page synopsis of his/her research. It is preferable that the research area interest shall be compatible with ongoing vision, mission and current research activities of the Institute / Department where fellows are going to work. CHARUSAT PDF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 3 of 8 PDF 4. Shortlisting of Fellows 4.1 Dean shall appoint the selection committee with prior approval from the Provost, which shall have following members: 1) Dean of the Institute 2) Principal of the institute 3) Provost nominee senior level expert 4) Senior faculty of the institute and Head of the department 5) Mentor who has expressed his / her willingness to take the fellow. 4.2 Selection committee may consider the following criteria for short listing: 1) Quality of the PhD work 2) Quality of the publication 3) Knowledge of various field and disciplines which is reflected from the publications or synopsis of the Ph.D work. 4) Usefulness of the fellow’s knowledge to the existing CHARUSAT research programmes. The committee shall shortlist the appropriate applicants who have to be called for presentation in front of the selection committee. PDF 5. Selection of the Fellows: 5.1 Shortlisted candidate has to present his / her thesis work and proposed research plan at CHARUSAT in front of the Selection Committee. The candidate may be allowed to appear for the selection presentation via video conference with prior approval. 5.2 Selection Committee shall recommend the name of the candidate to be appointed as Post-Doctoral Fellow. Also the committee shall recommend the waiting list of the candidates in priority order. PDF 6. Tenure: 6.1 The fellowship shall be offered initially for one year. 6.2 Extension beyond 1 year may be considered in a few deserving cases depending on the progress and need of the project (Fellow must have Minimum 1 research Paper published as a first Author). Extension shall be granted up to one more year and no extension shall be given beyond two years. 6.3 The mentor shall make a request for extension in time giving detailed justification and period for which extension is required. CHARUSAT PDF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 4 of 8 6.4 A detailed report of scientific achievements under the Post-Doctoral Fellowship programme, since its commencement must invariably be sent along with the request for extension. The mentor should also state clearly that a second extension is not contemplated at all. PDF 7. Stipend and Benefits: 7.1 The consolidated fellowship per month shall be given to a fellow while working in the CHARUSAT and will be published on CHARUSAT website for that academic year. (Will be varied time to time). HRA shall not be applicable if University provides accommodation. 7.2 The Post-Doctoral Fellows are not an employee of CHARUSAT and shall not be construed as such. CHARUSAT employee’s policies shall not be applicable to them. 7.3 Fellow shall be allowed to access the existing facility to carry out his/her research work. Fellow shall be provided with computer facility and internet connection for research, report and reference work and library facility. 7.4 A Fellow may avail leave of 30 days with stipend for each year of his / her tenure. The leaves not availed cannot be carried over to the next year. Leave counted more than 30 days shall be considered as a leave without pay. PDF 8. Obligations of mentor: 8.1 The sanctioned research scheme or work or project must commence within 1 month from the date of receipt of the sanction letter, unless otherwise authorized by CHARUSAT. Failing to this the fellowship will be treated as withdrawn. 8.2 The Dean shall form a Monitoring Committee comprising The Dean, the Mentor and one/two senior faculty members to review the progress of the PDF. The PDF shall present his/her progress once in 6 months to the Monitoring Committee. The Mentor shall ensure the timely monitoring of Post-Doctoral Fellow(s) working with him/her. 8.3 The Mentor shall regularly submit progress review report to Research Section of CHARUSAT. 8.4 The Mentor shall endeavor that the PDF publish paper(s) in (SCI journals only) or have submitted at least one manuscript (to be published) by the end of fellowship period. The mentor shall acknowledge the support given by CHARUSAT in all the publications arising from the work done under the scheme. CHARUSAT should also be acknowledged in similar type of other published work/press reports etc. 8.5 Mentor has to submit the final report (in prescribed format as mentioned in Annexure-1) before 15 days of completion of the fellowship, describing original CHARUSAT PDF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 5 of 8 objective(s), how far these objective(s) have been achieved and how the results have benefitted the development or enriched the existing knowledge on the subject by enclosing manuscripts, preprints and reprints of the papers arising from the fellowship tenure. 8.6 In the event of a Mentor proceeding abroad on sabbatical leave for a period exceeding two months or takes up an assignment within the country involving his/her absence from his/ her duty for two months at a stretch, he/she may name a co-mentor to supervise the fellow and such a name has to be approved in advance by CHARUSAT. 8.7 If the Mentor goes abroad for a fairly long period, CHARUSAT shall have the right to terminate the project or abridge the tenure, as the case may be. In any event Mentor shall give notice well in advance (at least 3 months) to CHARUSAT of his/her intention of his/her non-availability from the project. 8.8 At the end of tenure or early leave, fellow has to get No Objection Certificate from the related departments such as Library, Wincell, Canteen, HR etc. 8.9 Fellow shall submit all the material and reagent generated during the experimentation along with hand written record book to the Mentor which shall be verify and inform to the respective Dean. 8.10 Mentor shall workout for the budget requirements such as computer with internet, infrastructure and other expenses such as consumables and contingency. PDF 9. General rules for the fellows: 9.1 The Selected candidate has to join his / her assignment normally within a month’s time of the receipt of the offer letter. 9.2 The selected fellow shall sign an agreement of one year stay in CHARUSAT. If candidate leaves the fellowship scheme in between, he/she has to return the drawn fellowship. 9.3 Selected fellow has to work with the allocated Mentor on the mutually agreed Research area / Research project as well as take part in ongoing research activities of the Laboratory / Institute / Department. 9.4 Selected fellow has to actively take part in all academic events organized or conducted by the Institute/ Department. 9.5 The award of fellowship does not imply to fellows for any assurance or guarantee for subsequent employment by CHARUSAT or at the Institution where he/she is working. 9.6 If the fellow is reported to have been lagging in his/her research assignment, the fellowship is liable to be terminated by CHARUSAT and drawn fellowship may CHARUSAT PDF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 6 of 8 have to be returned to CHARUSAT. 9.7 CHARUSAT shall be the owner of all the intellectual property patentable / non patentable generated by the fellow, if any. However there shall be a royalty sharing agreement between CHARUSAT and the fellow inventors, as and when required. CHARUSAT PDF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 7 of 8 Annexure-1 CHARUSAT - Post Doctoral Fellowship Progamme FORMAT FOR FINAL REPORT 1. Title of the Project: 2. Name of Mentor and Post-Doctoral Fellow: 3. Implementing Institution and other collaborating Institutions or Department: 4. Date of commencement: 5. Duration: 6. Date of completion: 7. Objectives as approved: 8. Deviation made from original objectives if any, while implementing the project and reasons thereof. 9. Experimental work giving full details of experimental set up, methods adopted, data collected supported by necessary tables, charts, diagrams and photographs. 10. Detailed analysis of results indicating contributions made towards increasing the state of knowledge in the subject. 11. Conclusions summarizing the achievements and indication of scope for future work. 12. S &T benefits accrued: I. List of research publications with complete details: Authors, Title of paper, Name of Journal, Publisher and Address of Journal Vol., page, year II. Manpower trained on the project: Other Technical Personnel trained III. Patents taken or filed, if any: IV. Products developed, if any: V. Project proposal Developed, if any: Name and signature with date (Mentor) (Post Doctoral Fellow) CHARUSAT PDF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 8 of 8