CHARUSAT Policy for CHARUSAT Postgraduate Student Fellowship (PGSF) (Effective from July 2024) CHAROTAR UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CHANGA 388 421 GUJARAT CHAROTAR UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (CHARUSAT) CHARUSAT Campus, Changa, Anand District, Gujarat – 388421. Policy for CHARUSAT Postgraduate Student Fellowship (PGSF) (Effective from July 2024) PGSF 1. Preface: CHARUSAT offers Post graduate (PG) Programmes in all its Faculties. To enhance the quality research output at CHARUSAT and to become an internationally acclaimed research Centre, CHARUSAT has initiated PG fellowship students pursuing PG Programmes at CHARUSAT. The likely outcome of CHARUSAT PG Fellowship will be quality research papers, quality research project and availability of prospective PhD research scholars at CHARUSAT. PGSF 2. Objectives: The objectives of this policy are: 2.1. To encourage meritorious students at the Under graduate level for pursuing postgraduate studies at CHARUSAT; 2.2. To build up academic excellence at Postgraduate level across CHARUSAT. PGSF 3. Eligibility: 3.1. This policy shall be applicable to all the students pursuing PG Programmes at CHARUSAT from third semester onwards. 3.2. A student to be eligible to apply for this scheme should have secured minimum 7.5 CGPA (without any backlog or FF grades) at the end of second semester of the PG Programme he/she is enrolled in 3.3. The students for the award of PGSF shall be selected based on merit and subject to a maximum of 5% of the total PG students enrolled in that particular programme (for eg., If M.Tech (EE) Programme has total 36 students enrolled under it, then 2 students will get the PGSF benefit). However, there shall be minimum 1 fellowship available for each PG programme subject to the compliance of the eligibility criteria. CHARUSAT PGSF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 2 of 4 PGSF 4. Application Procedure: 4.1. Within a month of declaration of second semester result, an Institute / Department (Engg.) Committee & Fellow Selection Committee chaired by the Principal / HOD (Engg.) and other members being PG Programme Coordinator and a senior teacher shall recommend the names as per the merit to the University. The Department (Engg.) / Institute shall maintain complete transparency so as the applicants are aware of merit list and procedure in general. 4.2. The selected student shall start getting the fellowship from the next month of the beginning of third semester PGSF 5. Fellowship amount & other terms: 5.1. The fellowship amount shall be INR 7,000/- per month. 5.2. The fellowship shall not be available during vacation months. 5.3. The fellowship will be terminated immediately and any amount paid in past shall be recovered in case a student desires to leave the programme halfway. 5.4. The fellowship will be paid to the PG fellow on monthly basis subject to satisfactory contribution by him/her in academic, research and development activities of the Department (Engg.) / Institute. 5.5. A student shall have to maintain minimum 7.5 SGPA in third semester and be active contributor to department / institute to continue his/her fellowship. 5.6. The student’s academic performance and contribution to research as well as development / research activities will be reviewed at the end of third semester. It is expected to have good R & D Project(s) / Research Publication(s) as an outcome. 5.7. Any intellectual property generated shall be owned by CHARUSAT. Due recognition will be given to the student intern based on significance of contribution 5.8. Fellow student has to work in CHARUSAT only for the entire duration to avail the fellowship. CHARUSAT PGSF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 3 of 4 PGSF 6. General Instructions: 6.1. The Fellow Selection Committee of the Department (Engg.) / Institute shall allocate the PG fellows to the departmental faculty members (mentors) based on their research activity and seniority. However, Principal / HOD (Engg.) shall have the right to change the allocation as per institute / department need. 6.2. The Principal / HOD (Engg.) may allocate PGSF fellow for themselves also 6.3. The selected PG fellow shall have to contribute to Department (Engg.) / Institute development, academic and research initiatives to the extent of minimum six hours per week. This could include but not limited to tutorials, lab conduction, development and maintenance, assistance in R&D activities, assistance in academic activities like internal exams, presence, etc. 6.4. The PGSF fellowship is an initiative to reward brilliance of the PG students and by no means shall be considered as employment of CHARUSAT. 6.5. The PG fellows shall be giving undertaking. 6.6. The PGSF fellowship will be terminated immediately if the PG fellow is found to be indulging in unethical practices and/or misconduct like ragging, unruly behaviour, etc. CHARUSAT PGSF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 4 of 4