CHARUSAT Policy for CHARUSAT Undergraduate Student Fellowship (UGSF) (Effective from July 2024) CHAROTAR UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CHANGA 388 421 GUJARAT CHAROTAR UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (CHARUSAT) CHARUSAT Campus, Changa, Anand District, Gujarat – 388421. Policy for CHARUSAT Undergraduate Student Fellowship (UGSF) (Effective from July 2024) UGSF 1. Preface: CHARUSAT offers Under Graduate (UG) Programmes in all its Faculties i.e Technology & Engineering, Computer Science & Applications, Pharmacy, Management, Sciences and Medical Sciences. The likely outcome of CHARUSAT UG Fellowship will be Learn-n-Earn concept at CHARUSAT. UGSF 2. Objectives: The objectives of this policy are: 2.1. To encourage meritorious students at the Under graduate level for creating administrative and academic excellence. 2.2. To build up academic excellence at Undergraduate level across CHARUSAT. UGSF 3. Eligibility: 3.1. This policy shall be applicable to all the students pursuing UG Programmes at CHARUSAT from the semester mentioned below. Faculty Semester Faculty of Technology and Engineering From 5th Semester Faculty of Computer Science and Applications From 3rd Semester Faculty of Pharmacy From 5th Semester Faculty of Management From 3rd Semester Faculty of Sciences From 3rd Semester Faculty of Medical Sciences From 5th Semester 3.2. A student to be eligible to apply for this scheme should have secured minimum 7.5 CGPA (without any backlog or FF grades in any semester) at the start of semester as mentioned in above points of the UG Programme he/she is enrolled in. 3.3. The students for the award of UGSF shall be selected based on merit and subject to a maximum of 3% of the total UG students enrolled in that particular programme. (for eg., If B.Tech (CE) Programme has total 120 students enrolled under it, then 4 students will get the UGSF benefit). CHARUSAT UGSF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 2 of 4 However, there shall be minimum 1 fellowship available for each PG programme subject to the compliance of the eligibility criteria. UGSF 4. Application Procedure: 4.1. The circular for UGSF would be announced by the Principal. 4.2. The application form for UGSF is offline. 4.3. Interested UGSF students have to submit dully filled application form to Principal office. 4.4. Within a month of start of semester/s as mentioned in UF3 point, an Institute / Department (Engg.) Committee chaired by the Principal / HOD (Engg.) and a senior teacher shall recommend the names as per the merit to the University. The Department (Engg.) / Institute shall maintain complete transparency so as the applicants are aware of merit list and procedure in general 4.5. The selected student shall start getting the fellowship from the next month of the beginning of semester/s as mentioned in UGSF 3 point. UGSF 5. Fellowship amount & other terms: 5.1. The fellowship amount shall be INR 4800/-(200*6 hours per week =1200*4 weeks =4800) per month. 5.2. The fellowship shall be maximum for 2 years. 5.3. The fellowship shall generally not be available during vacation months. 5.4. The fellowship will be terminated immediately and any amount paid in past shall be recovered in case a student desires to leave the programme halfway 5.5. The fellowship will be paid to the UG fellow on monthly basis subject to satisfactory contribution by him/her in academic, administrative and development activities of the Department / University. 5.6. A student shall have to maintain minimum 7.5 SGPA in the following years and be active contributor to department / institute to continue his/her fellowship. 5.7. The fellow has to maintain academics records& attendance as per university norms. 5.8. Fellow student has to work in CHARUSAT only for the entire duration to avail the fellowship. UGSF 6. General Instructions: 6.1. An Institute / Department (Engg.) Committee chaired by the Principal / HOD (Engg.) and a senior teacher shall allocate the UG fellows to the departmental faculty members. However, Principal / HOD (Engg.) shall have the right to change the allocation as per institute / department need. The Principal / HOD (Engg.) may allocate UGSF fellow for themselves also. 6.2. The selected fellow shall have to contribute to university development, academic and administrative initiatives to the extent of minimum six hours CHARUSAT UGSF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 3 of 4 per week. This could include but not limited to tutorials, lab conduction, development and maintenance, assistance in R&D activities, assistance in academic activities like internal exams, presence, Work at IQAC Section, UIIC Section, HRDC Section, CDPC Section etc. 6.3. The UGSF fellowship is an initiative to reward brilliance of the UG students and by no means shall be construed as employment of CHARUSAT. 6.4. The UGSF fellowship will be terminated immediately if the UG fellow is found to be indulging in unethical practices and/or misconduct like ragging, unruly behaviour, work/performance found unsatisfactory etc. 6.5. Students receiving any other scholarship and Students admitted under Tuition Fees Waiver Scheme are not eligible to apply. CHARUSAT UGSF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 4 of 4