CHARUSAT Policy for CHARUSAT Research (Effective from July 2024) Charotar University of Science and Technology (CHARUSAT) Changa CHAROTAR UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (CHARUSAT) CHARUSAT Campus, Changa, Anand District, Gujarat – 388421. Policy for CHARUSAT Research (Effective from July 2024) Research: It is a creative work undertaken on a systemic basis in order to increase the stock of knowledge and to devise new applications. It is used to establish or confirm facts, reaffirm the results of previous work, solve new or existing problem, support theorems or develop new theories A researcher: Is someone who conducts research i.e. an organized and systemic investigation in- to something. Scientists are often described as researchers. A scientist is a person who devotes himself/herself to doing research or a person with advanced knowledge of one or more sciences. Preamble CHARUSAT aims at fostering an outstanding research environment with highest standards of professionalism, integrity and ethical conduct. CHARUSAT believes in an environment of academic freedom, where scholars and teachers can pursue research in their areas of interest. Therefore, all “researchers” under the auspices of CHARUSAT including academic faculty, research personnel, research scholars, bachelor and master students, visiting research fellows and research collaborators are expected to adhere with following policy:  Researchers are expected to develop, execute and disseminate their research results in reputed, peer-reviewed publications and obtain patents for their inventions and innovations wherever applicable.  Researchers are expected to apply for grants to national and international funding agencies, private foundations, industries or other sources to seek support for their research endeavors.  Researchers should balance their research endeavors in addition to other obligations of their job such as teaching, consultancy and administrative duties.  Research endeavors are required for the career advancement of the staff as well as to promulgate university’s reputation as a global institution of excellence in higher education and research. CHARUSAT comprises of various faculties with multiple disciplines and varied research interest. Therefore, research thrust areas encompasses research interest of all the researchers of constituent institutes of CHARUSAT. Page 1 of 6 CHARUSAT Research Guidelines 2024 Approved in BOM RP1 Research Projects Funding and consultancy CHARUSAT encourages and supports its researchers to undertake sponsored research and consultancy projects from external funding agencies. The university provides specialized administrative, institutional and infrastructural support in managing of sponsored research. In order to achieve these aims:  University researchers should ensure that their research complies with the guidelines and procedures of the project-sponsoring agency as well as ethical guidelines.  Researchers should make prior arrangements and report to university authorities of any special administrative requirements for execution of their research projects.  Researchers should ensure that they have the essential trainings, skills and resources or should arrange to outsource for specialized requirements, in addition to available infrastructure at their institutes to conduct their research projects.  It is based on discretion of the researcher to suggest how university can support the successful planning and management of their sponsored research projects.  Researchers should ensure the accuracy and validity of their findings, and acknowledge CHARUSAT and contributions of all involved in their research activities.  University encourages collaborative projects amongst researchers. Researchers should (wherever possible) pursue interdisciplinary research and should have an open exchange of ideas, research design, methods, results, discussions and internal reviews (subject to confidentiality).  Senior members of the university research fraternity wherever possible shall provide guidance and directions to junior researchers in planning their research activities.  Researchers of constituent institutions of CHARUSAT, along with their administrators shall implement robust systems of project and budget management. The recording, storage and archival of research reports including Ph. D. thesis, dissertations, research/review articles etc. should be carried out at individual institutes/departmental libraries/central library.  CHARUSAT encourages researchers to apply for extra-mural research grant to various national and international funding agencies as well as private industries to undertake interdisciplinary collaborative national and international research.  CHARUSAT also provides Research Grant as internal funding facility to its academic staff members. CHARUSAT encourages consultancy assignment by researchers. The policy on consultancy separately notified by Charusat may be referred for further information. CHARUSAT supports its faculty members to initiate their research work by providing seed money up to Rs. Five lakhs through Charusat Research Grants. Page 2 of 6 CHARUSAT Research Guidelines 2024 Approved in BOM RP2 Evaluation and Monitoring of Research Performance Researchers should follow the rules and regulation of external funding agencies for sponsored grant. CHARUSAT Research Grant is also available subject to following conditions:  Research proposal under CHARUSAT Research Grant to be invited twice a year.  Academic staff members to follow funding rules and regulations of CHARUSAT.  All research proposals shall be scrutinized by expert committee appointed by Provost  Every sanctioned project will be reviewed twice in a year by University Committee  At least one peer reviewed paper must be published through the research work funded by CHARUSAT RP3 Bachelors, Masters Research  University offers assistance for internal as well students from other universities for summer training/mini-projects/dissertation projects conducted within its constituent institutions. Bachelors and Masters Students can enroll under respective faculties for mini-projects/dissertation only in the final semester and for summer training during the vacation period of any semester. CHARUSAT Postgraduate Student Fellowship (PGSF)  CHARUSAT offers Post graduate (PG) Programmes in all its Faculties. To enhance the quality research output at CHARUSAT and to become an internationally acclaimed research centre, CHARUSAT has initiated PG fellowship students pursuing PG Programmes at CHARUSAT. The likely outcome of CHARUSAT PG Fellowship will be quality research papers, quality research project and availability of prospective PhD research scholars at CHARUSAT.  Policy for PGSF is separately notified by CHARUSAT CHARUSAT Visitor Student Research Internship – CVSRI  This policy envisages attracting brilliant students across CHARUSAT and globe to get them exposed to Research activities of CHARUSAT for a short term. A Professor / Associate professor (Mentor) will be taking student interns either to participate in Department / Institute Research activities or distress of pursuing their own interest through Department / Institute Mentors or both.  Policy for CVSRI is separately notified by CHARUSAT Page 3 of 6 CHARUSAT Research Guidelines 2024 Approved in BOM RP4 Doctoral Research Policy for doctoral students is separately notified by CHARUSAT RP5 Postdoctoral Research: Policy for postdoctoral research is separately notified by CHARUSAT RP6 Research Publications CHARUSAT encourages and appeals to its researchers in publishing quality research/review articles in reputed peer reviewed journals having “International Standard Serial Number” (ISSN) or books having “International Standard Book Number” (ISBN) numbers. CHARUSAT academic fraternity is strongly encouraged to publish their research in journals having Thomson Reuters Impact Factors. Authors from CHARUSAT should be meticulous about choosing those journal or publishers that are indexed by the following agencies: Scopus, Web of Science, Pubmed and evaluated by Journal Citation Reports (JCR), Science Citation Index (SCI), Social Sciences Citation Index (SSCI), SCImago Journal Rank (SJR). The corresponding author should ensure that all the authors in their communicated journal publication have agreed to the final manuscript and due credits should be given to all authors who have made scholarly contributions to their research. RP7 Patent, IPR and Royalty Sharing CHARUSAT encourages, facilitates, promotes and safeguards scientific investigations, research and innovation. For this purpose, the university has Intellectual Property (IP) policy to provide guidelines for making inventions and discoveries available to the general public in the interest of the nation at large. IP policy of CHARUSAT aims to lay down the process for promotion and support to creators/ innovators at CHARUSAT for translating their innovative works into IP. The policy also aims to set forth guidelines for ownership of IP developed at CHARUSAT, those directly or indirectly associated with CHARUSAT. Moreover, the university has a specific policy on distribution of royalty sharing which defines the process and scheme of distribution of royalty. The detailed royalty sharing policy is separately notified by CHARUSAT. RP8 Research Centers CHARUSAT has established K C Patel Research and Development Centre (KRADLE) and CHARUSAT Space Technology and Research Centre (CSTRC) and ICC to undertake frontier and research development work in the emerging multidisciplinary areas of science and technology as well as to steer the scientific and industrial development at the campus. Page 4 of 6 CHARUSAT Research Guidelines 2024 Approved in BOM RP9 Research paper Award To inspire family members of CHARUSAT to accomplish quality research and to cultivate a conducive research culture in the University by felicitating research works published in reputed journals. RP10 Endowment Chairs to Promote Research CHARUSAT has established “CHARUSAT Endowment Chair” that invites renowned scientists and academicians from India and abroad to interact with students and research fraternity of CHARUSAT. RP11 Incentives and Support CHARUSAT encourages and facilitate CHARUSAT researchers to participate in training programs/ workshops/ conferences either within India or outside India. University administration shall decide for financial assistance based on norms of CHARUSAT. The detailed policy for conference participation is separately notified by CHARUSAT. RP12 Research Council and Doctoral Advisory Committee  CHARUSAT Research Council comprises of eminent scientists from external Institutes/ research organizations to monitor and address matters related to research.  CHARUSAT has constituted Doctoral Advisory Committee in each of its institute for each research scholar enrolled in the PhD program. This committee monitors the progress and quality of research undertaken by the research scholar. RP13 Plagiarism, research misconduct and conflict of interests CHARUSAT strongly discourages all forms of plagiarism such as plagiarism of literature, of ideas and even self-plagiarism. CHARUSAT strongly discourages research misconduct or any compromise with its principles of honesty and integrity in research. Appropriate investigation and disciplinary actions will be taken by the administration against any such offence. The researchers should take prior permission from CHARUSAT before proceeding with research that involves conflict of interest that might influence a researcher’s decision in publishing and reviewing research. CHARUSAT researchers should disclose to all entities associated with their research work such as journals, publishers, conference organizers or institutions of any potential conflict of interest. Page 5 of 6 CHARUSAT Research Guidelines 2024 Approved in BOM RP14 Statutory and Ethical Obligations  Researchers are required to carry out their research in compliance with CHARUSAT’s obligations under legislation and any ethical and contractual obligations.  Researchers of all the disciplines including applied sciences, medical sciences, social sciences, management studies, engineering and technology, humanities as well as computer sciences should follow the appropriate ethical guidelines of their respective field. It is expected from all the researchers, as well as essentially required, to obtain prior ethical approval as per the national/ state level ethical guidelines before commencing their research work. RP15 How triviality of research can be discouraged?  Academic reputation of the university depends on the number of quality research publications with high citations and value or utility of the patents achieved by its researchers. Many researchers lack clarity on achieving a good research publication and in desperation they publish their valuable findings to spurious/bogus publishers, journals and books. It is a collective ethical responsibility of scientific, technology and social research communities to control these practices.  CHARUSAT appeals to its researchers not to communicate their research findings to these dubious/predatory publishers who are charging fees for publishing or article processing as a requirement to publish their research. Ideally a reputed publisher/journal does not charge fees as a prerequisite to publish. While publishing in open-access journals researchers should be aware in selecting well known journals even if they charge fees, but do not compromise in publication ethics and have a transparent peer-review system. Therefore, researchers should scrutinize their research and make it worthy enough to be published by a transparent peer-review system in a reputed journal.  Given these facts, there are certain reputed open-access publishers that follow ethical standards of publishing and do charge appropriate fees. A better idea of which journal to publish can be obtained from the forum of editors and publishers of peer review journals, which is the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE). CHARUSAT encourages its researchers to publish in journals of the publishers who are members of COPE and its guidelines can be referred to at www.publicationethics.org. Page 6 of 6 CHARUSAT Research Guidelines 2024 Approved in BOM