CHARUSAT Policy for CHARUSAT PhD Scholars’ Fellowship (CPSF) (Effective from July 2024) CHAROTAR UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CHANGA 388 421 GUJARAT CHAROTAR UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (CHARUSAT) CHARUSAT Campus, Changa, Anand District, Gujarat – 388421. Policy for CHARUSAT PhD Scholars’ Fellowship (CPSF) (Effective from July 2024) CPSF 1. Preface & Objective: 1.1. Research and Innovation is considered as an impetus of growth and development at CHARUSAT. PhD Programmes at CHARUSAT form an important component of Research canvass of CHARUSAT. The PhD Programmes are offered in the faculty of Applied Sciences, Engineering & Technology, Computer Science and Applications, Pharmaceutical Sciences, Management Sciences, Humanities Physiotherapy, Nursing and Paramedical Sciences. 1.2. The PhD Scholars are expected to work on frontier research problems with unidisciplinary, interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary approaches. This policy aims to encourage bright candidates to pursue full-time PhD Programme at CHARUSAT. CPSF 2. Brief information: 2.1. This policy encompasses offering of Fellowship to full-time PhD scholars registered at CHARUSAT. 2.2. The PhD Scholars’ Fellowship will comprise of a monthly fellowship to full-time PhD scholars for three years duration and subject to allied terms & conditions mentioned here under: 2.3. The CPSF shall be available to the registered full-time PhD scholars who have successfully cleared National level tests mentioned hereafter. CPSF 3. Eligibility: 3.1. The candidate should have minimum First Class in Masters’ Degree. 3.2. The candidate should have successfully cleared National level tests such as Junior Research Fellowship Test (JRF), National Eligibility Test (NET), Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE), Graduate Pharmacy Aptitude Test (GPAT), Joint Entrance Screening Test (JEST), DST INSPIRE Fellowship Test, or any other similar national level tests conducted by Government / Statutory Bodies. CHARUSAT CPSF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 2 of 4 CPSF 4. Selection Procedure: 4.1. Any eligible candidate as mentioned above who registers for full-time PhD at CHARUSAT shall have to apply to his/her research Supervisor along with proof of National Test cleared for availing the fellowship. 4.2. Provost nominated committee will merit and shortlist them for the CPSF fellowship. 4.3. He / She shall start getting the fellowship from the next month of his/her registration on approval of the application by the University Committee. 4.4. The candidate should be a registered as a full time research scholar and must have paid 1st Semester fees. 4.5. He/she should satisfy the conditions lay down by university time-to-time for the selection. CPSF 5. Fellowship amount: The selected candidates by the committee shall receive a CPSF fellowship as per the University Norms. List of selected candidates will be displayed on CHARUSAT University Website. CPSF 6. Other terms: 6.1. The fellowship will be given for a maximum of three years from the date of registration. 6.2. In case a candidate drawing CPSF (irrespective of any category) leaves his/her programme halfway and/or DAC reports of non-performance, the fellowship amount shall have to be refunded by the candidate. CPSF 7. General Instructions: 7.1. The candidates availing PhD fellowship are expected to contribute in Academic, Research & Development activities of Department (Engg.) / Institute to the extent of 8 hours/week. 7.2. The selected PhD fellows shall be allocated to their respective Supervisors who will guide them for their Institute / Department (Engg.) contributions as mentioned above in consultation with Principal / HOD (Engg.). 7.3. Any intellectual property generated shall be owned by CHARUSAT. Due recognition will be given to the PhD Fellow based on significance of contribution. 7.4. A full time research scholar will get maximum 30 days leave in the year after due approvals. 7.5. Number of CPSF fellow per teacher is maximum two at a given period of time. This number will be decided by university, if needed. 7.6. Candidates availing fellowships will be required to sign an agreement with CHARUSAT. CHARUSAT CPSF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 3 of 4 7.7. Continuation of fellowship shall be subject to satisfaction performance of the fellow. 7.8. All the fellowship amount in all categories are subject to change/modify time to time by University. 7.9. For all instances which are not covered in this policy, a University Committee shall take appropriate decision. CHARUSAT CPSF Guidelines 2024 (Approved by BOM) Page 4 of 4