Admission Application Form | × National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) Reports: NIRF REPORT 2021 NIRF REPORT 2020 NIRF REPORT 2019 NIRF REPORT 2018 Contact Person: Dr. Abhisek Dadhania iqac.pdpias@charusat.ac.in × Feedback Action Taken Report Reports: REPORT 2019-2020 REPORT 2018-2019 REPORT 2017-2018 REPORT 2016-2017 Student Trainings and Student Research Projects Reports: Report Welcome to BDIAS Bapubhai Desaibhai Patel Institute of Allied and Healthcare Sciences (BDIAS) is one of the constituent institute of CHARUSAT. It was established in 2016 with the aim of providing excellent/quality education in the field of health care. At BDIAS we aim to create next generation health care professionals through quality education, extensive Clinical training and community services. We believe not only in creating skilled professional, but also in creating compassionate human being with empathy towards patients which is very important quality in health care delivery. Vision To be a leading institute in the field of Allied Health Sciences with amalgamation of best practices of Education, Research and Patient care. Mission To prepare skilled allied health care professionals by high standard of education delivery, extensive clinical exposure and research. PEOs POs and COs Click here... Project Based Learning State of the Art Research Facilities Holistic Development Message from Principals Desk It’s my immense pleasure to introduce Bapubhai Desaibhai Patel Institute of Allied and Healthcare Sciences (BDIAS) constituent of Charotar University of Science and technology (CHARUSAT) established in 2016. CHARUSAT has been established by promulgation of Gujarat Private University Act, 2009. It is empowered to confer degrees under Section 22 of UGC Act, 1956. Our university received grade A+ by NAAC and KCG. Our institute is offering four paramedical courses since in the hi-tech world of modern health care, the need for a team approach in curing illness and sustaining life is essential and it takes people with varying skills and expertise to make up the team. I believe advanced complex instrumentation and equipment require technocrats not only to operate but also to care and maintain them as well. Paramedical experts have to possess a strong scientific foundation and be able to perform at a much higher level than the traditionally trained technicians of the past. Programs Offered Bachelor's of Medical Radiology and Imaging Technology Course Duration: 04 Years Intake: 30 Seats Fees: Rs 65,000 More Details: View Bachelor of Medical Laboratory Sciences (BMLS) Course Duration: 04 Years Intake: 30 Seats Fees: Rs 55,000/- More Details: View Baccalaureate of Anaesthesia and Operation Theatre Technology (B.AOTT) Duration: 04 Years Intake: 30 Seats Fees: Rs. 65,000/-(Per Year) More Details: View Bachelor's of Optometry (BOPTM) Course Duration: 05 Years Intake: 20 Seats Fees: Rs 1,06,000/- More Details: View Masters of Medical Laboratory Sciences (MMLS) Duration: 02 Years Intake: 30 Seats Fees: Rs. 85,000/-(Per Year) More Details: View Master's of Medical Radiology and Imaging Technology Duration: 02 Years Intake: 05 Seats Fees: Rs. 1,00,000/-(Per Year) More Details: View Master's in Anaesthesia and Operating Theatre Technology (M.AOTT) Duration: 02 Years Intake: 10 Seats Fees: Rs. 85,000/-(Per Year) More Details: View Post Graduate Diploma in Clinical Hypnosis (PGDCH) Intake: 30 Seats Fees: Rs. 60,000/-(Per Year) More Details: View For Ph D program Click here... Faculty Members Bapubhai Desaibhai Patel Institute of Allied and Healthcare Sciences nurtures students to be next-generation health-care professionals. The faculty members actively work with Doctors and researchers to give cutting edge to the course offerings. Presently 15 faculty members contribute their expertise in the development of CIPS. Rare sugar production, Protein engineering, Diabetic Nephropathy, Genomics and Proteomics for Diagnostic approach, Pathologies, Bionanotechnology, Recombinant proteins, Molecular Pathology, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, Optoelectronic Devices, Glaucoma,Vision, Ophthalmic Anthropometry are some of the broad research areas, teachers delve into. Principal Dr. Dhara N. Patel Principal & I/C Dean Medical Sciences MSc. Ph.D. Bacterial fluxomics, Antimicrobial resistance, Bacterial pathogenesis and virulence Head, MIT Dr. Manna Debnath Assistant Professor MSc. MIT, Ph.D CT, MRI (Cartilage Mapping), and Interventional Radiology Head, MLT Dr. Artee Tyagi Assistant Professor MSc. PhD (CLT) Clinical Infections and Diagnositic assays, Clinical Pathogen, Infection Biology & Antimicrobial resistance, Antimicrobial and antibiofilm acitivites Head, Optometry Optom.Jaydevsinh Pargara Assistant Professor M.Optometry, Ph.D (Pursuing) Tear film and contact lens interaction, Community Optometry Department of MLT Dr. Hemant Kumar Professor MSc. Ph.D. PDF(UCSF, USA), DBT- Ramalingaswami Fellow Structural Biology, Antibody Engineering, Diseases Diagnostics, Protein Engineering, Chemical Biology Dr. Ruma Sarkar Assistant Professor MSc. Ph.D. (DST SERB-National-PDF) Cancer Biology, Drug Discovery Dr. Parth Thakor Assistant Professor MSc. Ph.D. (DST-Inspire Faculty PDF, Canada) Cancer Biology, Secondary Metabolites, Drug Discovery, and Chemical Biology Mr. Debayan Baidya Assistant Professor MSc. Ph.D (Pursuing) Molecular Pathology Systemic Infections, Molecular Pathology & Diagnostics , Synergistic Genetics Dr. Khushal Patel Assistant Professor MSC. PhD (Genetics) Systems Biology, Infectious Microbiology, Molecular Pathogenomics Dr. Meghna Diarsa Assistant Professor MSc. PhD Enzymology, Antimicrobial resistance study, Antibiofilm, Probiotics Ms. Amita Patel Assistant Professor MSc. Ph.D. (Pursuing) Infection microbiology Ms. Pankti Patel Tutor MSC. Molecular Detection and Diagnosis Ms. Bhumika Panchal Laboratory Technician MSc. PgDMLT Molecular Diagnostics Ms. Kriti Patel Laboratory Technician MSc. Medical Laboratory Technology Department of MIT Shreeni Shah Assistant Professor MSc (MIT) 3D Post Processing ( Segmentation and Al related) , Patient Care, Radiation Safety Mr. Atri Thakar Assistant Professor MSc (MIT) Osteoporosis Detection using Computed Tomography, Special Radiographic Procedures and Nuclear Medicine technology Department of Optometry Optom.Yogesh R.Vaghela Assistant Professor MSc. Ph.D. (Pursuing) Infection microbiology Optom.Devanshi Dalal Assistant Professor M.Optometry, Ph.D (Pursuing) Myopia Control, Low vision aids Optom.Nita Makwana Clinical Instructor B.Optometry Retinal Eccentricity & Visual acuity Department of OTAT Dr. Suchitra Barge Assistant Professor MBBS, MPH Clinical research in Haem-Oncology and Community health Vasvi Parmar Clinical Instructor BSc. OTAT Office Associate Mr. Nirav Patel Office Associate BCom. PgDM (UK) Eye Screening 9175 Total Screened 538 Refractive Error 55 Squint 10 Colour Vision Deficiency 81 Cataract Take a Tour of BDIAS Contact Info Welcome to BDIAS-CHARUSAT. We are glad to have you around. Phone +91 2697 265311 Email principal.cips@charusat.ac.in Location: Off. Nadiad-Petlad Highway, Changa-388421, Anand, Gujarat, India Quick Links Career NIRF IQAC © Copyright BDIAS- CHARUSAT | All rights reserved