CHARUSAT IPR Facilitation Cell CHARUSAT IPR Facilitation provides services to all the innovators to protect intellectual property. It offers this facility to innovators, researchers, faculties, students and grassroots innovators within and outside CHARUSAT. CHARUSAT with well laden IPR policy encourages and empowers every stakeholder to constantly strive through the innovation and creativity. By employing the legal IP support through the on-board Patent Agent and IPR Experts, CHARUSAT has adopted a “ZERO-IPR Burden” strategy for the inventors and faculties. This, along with the generous financial support has created a concrete foundation of innovation, creativity and Intellectual property across the university. Patent Practices in Research is a unique initiative to impart basic acquaintance of IPR across the university. The course is offered for free and accessible throughout the year for CHARUSAT student, researchers, and faculties. Brochure Inquiry Form Unique Features of CHARUSAT IPR Facilitation Onsite Pool of Technical experts - Being a university, we have the availability of technical expertise in various fields like pharmaceutical, electrical, electronics, mechanical, civil, computer, etc. in one place. You can get advice and guidance regarding your idea. Availability of Sophisticated Technology - CHARUSAT is equipped with state-of-art infrastructure, machines, and sophisticated equipment. You may avail of all of these facilities in one place to update and upgrade your innovations. Onsite IPR Experts - CHARUSAT IPR Facilitation is equipped with the experts having rich experience in intellectual property rights. We have the availability of registered patent agents for any of your techno-legal queries. Cost-Effective - Minimal overheads result in lesser charges than professional firms. At CHARUSAT IPR Facilitation you may avail IPR services at assured low charges than other professional IP Firms. Diligence and Expertise - An “A+” grade university gives a satisfactory and trustworthy output in work. The honesty, integrity and transparency are fundamental values of CHARUSAT. One can avail of the dedicated and worthy IPR services with utmost work ethics and client satisfaction. Activities of CHARUSAT IPR Facilitation Cell Creating IPR Awareness among Students, Faculties and Researchers Provide IPR related support (Patent Drafting, Filing and other Prosecution Related Tasks) Technology Transfer and Commercialization of Intellectual Property of the University Facilities @ CHARUSAT IPR Facilitation Patent Prior Art Search - Patentability search for the novelty of invention in various databases including patent and non-patent literature. Patent Landscape Analysis - It is a comprehensive report of the state-of-art search for the relevant technology with client customization. Freedom to Operate Search - A Freedom to Operate (FTO) analysis invariably begins by searching patent literature for issued or pending patents and obtaining a legal opinion as to whether a product, process or service may be considered to infringe any patent(s) owned by others. Patent Drafting - Techno-legal drafting of complete specification with claims. Patent Filing - Preparation and submission of Patent Application at Indian Patent Office. PCT Application - Preparation and submission of PCT Application for foreign filing. First Examination Report - (FER) To construe the FER for inventor/applicant and prepare the best response to FER Communication and hearing with IPO/IPAB - To provide legal support for hearing at the Intellectual Property Appellate Board. Copyright Software Copyright filing at the Indian Copyright Office for software related innovation. Literature and art Copyright filing at the Indian Copyright Office for literature and art-related innovation. Trademark Registration of Trademark at the Trademark office Industrial Design Design Search Search for anticipation/existence of similar design before application. Design Registration Preparation of documents and application for the Indian Patent Office. idea. CHARUSAT IPR Portfolio Title Total Patent 40 Industrial Design 5 Copyright 3 Trademark 4